docs/card-rendering.md, before:

# Card Rendering

To render a card, the primary step is to obtain a Glimmer component identified by the template tags within the card. A card may contain several Glimmer components, including fields and other miscellaneous components, that are categorized into three formats: isolated, embedded, and edit. These formats determine which component should be rendered. If there are no components available for the isolated or edit formats, the default format from the CardDef base class is used instead. The Glimmer components themselves are building blocks that can be used to create many other things.

## Format

- Isolated format renders a card as a root component.
- Embedded format is useful when a card is embedded within another card.
- Edit format is used when the user wants to update the value of the card.

## Field

A card object can serve as a field within another card object. To establish a card as a field for another card, you can use the @field decorator and specify one of the following field types: `contains`, `containsMany`, `linksTo`, or `linksToMany`. The main difference between a contained field and a linked field is that a linked field refers to another card instance in the realm, whereas a contained field creates a new card instance within the root component of the original card. In other words, a linked field has an identity to refer to, while a contained field doesn't. In edit mode, a contained field will provide inputs for updating its value, while a linked field will provide a modal to search for an existing card instance.

## Rendering process

1. Wrapping a card in Box class as a root component.
2. Getting a glimmer component based on format.
3. Getting fields from the Box class, including field's component.
4. Using fields and box class to instantiate the glimmer component.

## Re-rendering process

Our approach leverages the glimmer invalidation system to trigger card re-rendering. To achieve this, we rely on [TrackedWeakMap implementation](../packages/base/card-api.gts#L136-L138), where each card instance is used as a key. In order to track updates for a field in Glimmer, we entangle it by calling the `.get()` method on a map. When we need to signal to Glimmer that the field needs to be re-rendered, we use the `.set()` method on the same map.

Commit message:

Add atom-view layout to card-api (#705)
* can render atom view template

* containsMany compound field in edit mode renders items in atom view

* test improvements

* use atom view in linksToMany

* move atom layout styles to field-component

* test improvements

* update test

* add atom template to all base fields

* update test

* fix lint error

* update docs

* add field format test

* refactor BoxComponent type; test passes

* fix lint error

* sketching new component layer

* refactor

* update test

* plural field return type

* atom format - plural fields [wip]

* pairing work

* card-basics tests are passing

* most tests pass

* revert changes

* test fix

* update docs

* fix typo

docs/card-rendering.md, after:

# Card Rendering

To render a card, the primary step is to obtain a Glimmer component identified by the template tags within the card. A card may contain several Glimmer components, including fields and other miscellaneous components, that are categorized into four formats: isolated, embedded, edit, and atom. These formats determine which component should be rendered. If there are no components available for the isolated, edit, or atom formats, the default format from the CardDef base class is used instead. The Glimmer components themselves are building blocks that can be used to create many other things.

## Format

- Isolated format renders a card as a root component.
- Embedded format is useful when a card is embedded within another card.
- Edit format is used when the user wants to update the value of the card.
- Atom format is used to render the smallest format of a card or a field, using the computed `title` field. Nested `linksToMany` and nested `containsMany` fields use this format.

## Field

A card object can serve as a field within another card object. To establish a card as a field for another card, you can use the @field decorator and specify one of the following field types: `contains`, `containsMany`, `linksTo`, or `linksToMany`. The main difference between a contained field and a linked field is that a linked field refers to another card instance in the realm, whereas a contained field creates a new card instance within the root component of the original card. In other words, a linked field has an identity to refer to, while a contained field doesn't. In edit mode, a contained field will provide inputs for updating its value, while a linked field will provide a modal to search for an existing card instance.

## Field Rendering

A field component can optionally take in a `format` argument, as described in the "Format" section above. If no `format` argument is provided, the field format will be determined based on the card's format. For example, an `isolated` card will have `embedded` fields by default. An `edit` card will have `edit` fields. Computed fields can not be edited and will always render in `embedded` format.

## Rendering process

1. Wrapping a card in Box class as a root component.
2. Getting a glimmer component based on format.
3. Getting fields from the Box class, including field's component.
4. Using fields and box class to instantiate the glimmer component.

## Re-rendering process

Our approach leverages the glimmer invalidation system to trigger card re-rendering. To achieve this, we rely on [TrackedWeakMap implementation](../packages/base/card-api.gts#L136-L138), where each card instance is used as a key. In order to track updates for a field in Glimmer, we entangle it by calling the `.get()` method on a map. When we need to signal to Glimmer that the field needs to be re-rendered, we use the `.set()` method on the same map.
